---
layout: publication
title: 'Corrembed: Evaluating Pre-trained Model Image Similarity Efficacy With A Novel
  Metric'
authors: "Karl Audun Kagnes Borgersen, Morten Goodwin, Jivitesh Sharma, Tobias Aasmoe,\
  \ Mari Leonhardsen, Gro Herredsvela R\xF8rvik"
conference: Lecture Notes in Computer Science
year: 2023
bibkey: borgersen2023corrembed
citations: 3
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.16126'}]
tags: [Similarity Search, Evaluation]
short_authors: Borgersen et al.
---
Detecting visually similar images is a particularly useful attribute to look
to when calculating product recommendations. Embedding similarity, which
utilizes pre-trained computer vision models to extract high-level image
features, has demonstrated remarkable efficacy in identifying images with
similar compositions. However, there is a lack of methods for evaluating the
embeddings generated by these models, as conventional loss and performance
metrics do not adequately capture their performance in image similarity search
tasks.
  In this paper, we evaluate the viability of the image embeddings from
numerous pre-trained computer vision models using a novel approach named
CorrEmbed. Our approach computes the correlation between distances in image
embeddings and distances in human-generated tag vectors. We extensively
evaluate numerous pre-trained Torchvision models using this metric, revealing
an intuitive relationship of linear scaling between ImageNet1k accuracy scores
and tag-correlation scores. Importantly, our method also identifies deviations
from this pattern, providing insights into how different models capture
high-level image features.
  By offering a robust performance evaluation of these pre-trained models,
CorrEmbed serves as a valuable tool for researchers and practitioners seeking
to develop effective, data-driven approaches to similar item recommendations in
fashion retail.