---
layout: publication
title: "A Revisit of Hashing Algorithms for Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search"
authors: Cai Deng
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2016
bibkey: cai2016a
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.07545"}
tags: ['ARXIV', 'LSH']
---
Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search (ANNS) is a fundamental problem in many
areas of machine learning and data mining. During the past decade, numerous
hashing algorithms are proposed to solve this problem. Every proposed algorithm
claims outperform other state-of-the-art hashing methods. However, the
evaluation of these hashing papers was not thorough enough, and those claims
should be re-examined. The ultimate goal of an ANNS method is returning the most
accurate answers (nearest neighbors) in the shortest time. If implemented
correctly, almost all the hashing methods will have their performance improved
as the code length increases. However, many existing hashing papers only report
the performance with the code length shorter than 128. In this paper, we
carefully revisit the problem of search with a hash index, and analyze the pros
and cons of two popular hash index search procedures. Then we proposed a very
simple but effective two level index structures and make a thorough comparison
of eleven popular hashing algorithms. Surprisingly, the random-projection-based
Locality Sensitive Hashing (LSH) is the best performed algorithm, which is in
contradiction to the claims in all the other ten hashing papers. Despite the
extreme simplicity of random-projection-based LSH, our results show that the
capability of this algorithm has been far underestimated. For the sake of
reproducibility, all the codes used in the paper are released on GitHub, which
can be used as a testing platform for a fair comparison between various hashing
algorithms.
