---
layout: publication
title: Exploring Pca-based Feature Representations Of Image Pixels Via CNN To Enhance
  Food Image Segmentation
authors: Ying Dai
conference: Arxiv
year: 2024
bibkey: dai2024exploring
citations: 0
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.01469'}]
tags: []
short_authors: Ying Dai
---
For open vocabulary recognition of ingredients in food images, segmenting the
ingredients is a crucial step. This paper proposes a novel approach that
explores PCA-based feature representations of image pixels using a
convolutional neural network (CNN) to enhance segmentation. An internal
clustering metric based on the silhouette score is defined to evaluate the
clustering quality of various pixel-level feature representations generated by
different feature maps derived from various CNN backbones. Using this metric,
the paper explores optimal feature representation selection and suitable
clustering methods for ingredient segmentation. Additionally, it is found that
principal component (PC) maps derived from concatenations of backbone feature
maps improve the clustering quality of pixel-level feature representations,
resulting in stable segmentation outcomes. Notably, the number of selected
eigenvalues can be used as the number of clusters to achieve good segmentation
results. The proposed method performs well on the ingredient-labeled dataset
FoodSeg103, achieving a mean Intersection over Union (mIoU) score of 0.5423.
Importantly, the proposed method is unsupervised, and pixel-level feature
representations from backbones are not fine-tuned on specific datasets. This
demonstrates the flexibility, generalizability, and interpretability of the
proposed method, while reducing the need for extensive labeled datasets.