---
layout: publication
title: Quicksort Largest Bucket And Min-wise Hashing With Limited Independence
authors: Knudsen Mathias Bæk Tejs, Stöckel Morten
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2015
bibkey: knudsen2015quicksort
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/1502.05729"}
tags: ['ARXIV', 'Independent']
---
Randomized algorithms and data structures are often analyzed under the assumption of access to a perfect source of randomness. The most fundamental metric used to measure how random a hash function or a random number generator is, is its independence: a sequence of random variables is said to be \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(k\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}-independent if every variable is uniform and every size \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(k\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\} subset is independent. In this paper we consider three classic algorithms under limited independence. We provide new bounds for randomized quicksort, min-wise hashing and largest bucket size under limited independence. Our results can be summarized as follows. -Randomized quicksort. When pivot elements are computed using a \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(5\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}-independent hash function, Karloff and Raghavan, J.ACM'93 showed $O ( n \log n)$ expected worst-case running time for a special version of quicksort. We improve upon this, showing that the same running time is achieved with only \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(4\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}-independence. -Min-wise hashing. For a set \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(A\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}, consider the probability of a particular element being mapped to the smallest hash value. It is known that \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(5\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}-independence implies the optimal probability \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(O (1 /n)\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}. Broder et al., STOC'98 showed that \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(2\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}-independence implies it is \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(O(1 / \sqrt\{|A|\})\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}. We show a matching lower bound as well as new tight bounds for \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(3\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}- and \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(4\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}-independent hash functions. -Largest bucket. We consider the case where \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(n\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\} balls are distributed to \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(n\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\} buckets using a \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(k\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}-independent hash function and analyze the largest bucket size. Alon et. al, STOC'97 showed that there exists a \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(2\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}-independent hash function implying a bucket of size \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(\Omega ( n^\{1/2\})\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}. We generalize the bound, providing a \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(k\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}-independent family of functions that imply size $\Omega ( n^\{1/k\})$.
