---
layout: publication
title: Consistent Subset Sampling
authors: Kutzkov Konstantin, Pagh Rasmus
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2014
bibkey: kutzkov2014consistent
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/1404.4693"}
tags: ['ARXIV', 'Graph', 'Independent']
---
Consistent sampling is a technique for specifying, in small space, a subset \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(S\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\} of a potentially large universe \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(U\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\} such that the elements in \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(S\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\} satisfy a suitably chosen sampling condition. Given a subset \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(\mathcal\{I\}\subseteq U\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\} it should be possible to quickly compute \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(\mathcal\{I\}\cap S\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}, i.e., the elements in \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(\mathcal\{I\}\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\} satisfying the sampling condition. Consistent sampling has important applications in similarity estimation, and estimation of the number of distinct items in a data stream. In this paper we generalize consistent sampling to the setting where we are interested in sampling size-\{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(k\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\} subsets occurring in some set in a collection of sets of bounded size \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(b\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}, where \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(k\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\} is a small integer. This can be done by applying standard consistent sampling to the \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(k\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}-subsets of each set, but that approach requires time \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(\Theta(b^k)\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}. Using a carefully designed hash function, for a given sampling probability \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(p \in (0,1]\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}, we show how to improve the time complexity to \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(\Theta(b^\{\lceil k/2\rceil\}\log \log b + pb^k)\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\} in expectation, while maintaining strong concentration bounds for the sample. The space usage of our method is \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(\Theta(b^\{\lceil k/4\rceil\})\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}. We demonstrate the utility of our technique by applying it to several well-studied data mining problems. We show how to efficiently estimate the number of frequent \{&#37; raw &#37;\}\\(k\\)\{&#37; endraw &#37;\}-itemsets in a stream of transactions and the number of bipartite cliques in a graph given as incidence stream. Further, building upon a recent work by Campagna et al., we show that our approach can be applied to frequent itemset mining in a parallel or distributed setting. We also present applications in graph stream mining.
