---
layout: publication
title: Personalized News Recommendation System Via LLM Embedding And Co-occurrence
  Patterns
authors: Zheng Li, Kai Zhange
conference: Arxiv
year: 2024
bibkey: li2024personalized
citations: 0
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.06046'}]
tags: ["Recommender Systems"]
short_authors: Zheng Li, Kai Zhange
---
In the past two years, large language models (LLMs) have achieved rapid
development and demonstrated remarkable emerging capabilities. Concurrently,
with powerful semantic understanding and reasoning capabilities, LLMs have
significantly empowered the rapid advancement of the recommendation system
field. Specifically, in news recommendation (NR), systems must comprehend and
process a vast amount of clicked news text to infer the probability of
candidate news clicks. This requirement exceeds the capabilities of traditional
NR models but aligns well with the strengths of LLMs. In this paper, we propose
a novel NR algorithm to reshape the news model via LLM Embedding and
Co-Occurrence Pattern (LECOP). On one hand, we fintuned LLM by contrastive
learning using large-scale datasets to encode news, which can fully explore the
semantic information of news to thoroughly identify user preferences. On the
other hand, we explored multiple co-occurrence patterns to mine collaborative
information. Those patterns include news ID co-occurrence, Item-Item keywords
co-occurrence and Intra-Item keywords co-occurrence. The keywords mentioned
above are all generated by LLM. As far as we know, this is the first time that
constructing such detailed Co-Occurrence Patterns via LLM to capture
collaboration. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superior performance of
our proposed novel method