---
layout: publication
title: Holistic Evaluation Of Language Models
authors: Percy Liang, Rishi Bommasani, Tony Lee, Dimitris Tsipras, Dilara Soylu, Michihiro Yasunaga, Yian Zhang, Deepak Narayanan, Yuhuai Wu, Ananya Kumar, Benjamin Newman, Binhang Yuan, Bobby Yan, Ce Zhang, Christian Cosgrove, Christopher D. Manning, Christopher Ré, Diana Acosta-navas, Drew A. Hudson, Eric Zelikman, Esin Durmus, Faisal Ladhak, Frieda Rong, Hongyu Ren, Huaxiu Yao, Jue Wang, Keshav Santhanam, Laurel Orr, Lucia Zheng, Mert Yuksekgonul, Mirac Suzgun, Nathan Kim, Neel Guha, Niladri Chatterji, Omar Khattab, Peter Henderson, Qian Huang, Ryan Chi, Sang Michael Xie, Shibani Santurkar, Surya Ganguli, Tatsunori Hashimoto, Thomas Icard, Tianyi Zhang, Vishrav Chaudhary, William Wang, Xuechen Li, Yifan Mai, Yuhui Zhang, Yuta Koreeda
conference: "Published in Transactions on Machine Learning Research"
year: 2022
bibkey: liang2022holistic
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.09110v2"}
tags: []
---
Language models (LMs) are becoming the foundation for almost all major language technologies but their capabilities limitations and risks are not well understood. We present Holistic Evaluation of Language Models (HELM) to improve the transparency of language models. First we taxonomize the vast space of potential scenarios (i.e. use cases) and metrics (i.e. desiderata) that are of interest for LMs. Then we select a broad subset based on coverage and feasibility noting whats missing or underrepresented (e.g. question answering for neglected English dialects metrics for trustworthiness). Second we adopt a multi-metric approach We measure 7 metrics (accuracy calibration robustness fairness bias toxicity and efficiency) for each of 16 core scenarios when possible (87.537; of the time). This ensures metrics beyond accuracy dont fall to the wayside and that trade-offs are clearly exposed. We also perform 7 targeted evaluations based on 26 targeted scenarios to analyze specific aspects (e.g. reasoning disinformation). Third we conduct a large-scale evaluation of 30 prominent language models (spanning open limited-access and closed models) on all 42 scenarios 21 of which were not previously used in mainstream LM evaluation. Prior to HELM models on average were evaluated on just 17.937; of the core HELM scenarios with some prominent models not sharing a single scenario in common. We improve this to 96.037; now all 30 models have been densely benchmarked on the same core scenarios and metrics under standardized conditions. Our evaluation surfaces 25 top-level findings. For full transparency we release all raw model prompts and completions publicly for further analysis as well as a general modular toolkit. We intend for HELM to be a living benchmark for the community continuously updated with new scenarios metrics and models.
