---
layout: publication
title: 'Descriptor And Word Soups: Overcoming The Parameter Efficiency Accuracy Tradeoff
  For Out-of-distribution Few-shot Learning'
authors: Christopher Liao, Theodoros Tsiligkaridis, Brian Kulis
conference: 2024 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)
year: 2024
bibkey: liao2023descriptor
citations: 1
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.13612'}]
tags: ["CVPR", "Efficiency"]
short_authors: Christopher Liao, Theodoros Tsiligkaridis, Brian Kulis
---
Over the past year, a large body of multimodal research has emerged around
zero-shot evaluation using GPT descriptors. These studies boost the zero-shot
accuracy of pretrained VL models with an ensemble of label-specific text
generated by GPT. A recent study, WaffleCLIP, demonstrated that similar
zero-shot accuracy can be achieved with an ensemble of random descriptors.
However, both zero-shot methods are un-trainable and consequently sub-optimal
when some few-shot out-of-distribution (OOD) training data is available.
Inspired by these prior works, we present two more flexible methods called
descriptor and word soups, which do not require an LLM at test time and can
leverage training data to increase OOD target accuracy. Descriptor soup
greedily selects a small set of textual descriptors using generic few-shot
training data, then calculates robust class embeddings using the selected
descriptors. Word soup greedily assembles a chain of words in a similar manner.
Compared to existing few-shot soft prompt tuning methods, word soup requires
fewer parameters by construction and less GPU memory, since it does not require
backpropagation. Both soups outperform current published few-shot methods, even
when combined with SoTA zero-shot methods, on cross-dataset and domain
generalization benchmarks. Compared with SoTA prompt and descriptor ensembling
methods, such as ProDA and WaffleCLIP, word soup achieves higher OOD accuracy
with fewer ensemble members. Please checkout our code:
github.com/Chris210634/word_soups