---
layout: publication
title: 'D-unet: A Dual-encoder U-net For Image Splicing Forgery Detection And Localization'
authors: Bo Liu, Ranglei Wu, Xiuli Bi, Bin Xiao, Weisheng Li, Guoyin Wang, Xinbo Gao
conference: Arxiv
year: 2020
bibkey: liu2020d
citations: 17
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.01821'}]
tags: ["Evaluation"]
short_authors: Liu et al.
---
Recently, many detection methods based on convolutional neural networks
(CNNs) have been proposed for image splicing forgery detection. Most of these
detection methods focus on the local patches or local objects. In fact, image
splicing forgery detection is a global binary classification task that
distinguishes the tampered and non-tampered regions by image fingerprints.
However, some specific image contents are hardly retained by CNN-based
detection networks, but if included, would improve the detection accuracy of
the networks. To resolve these issues, we propose a novel network called
dual-encoder U-Net (D-Unet) for image splicing forgery detection, which employs
an unfixed encoder and a fixed encoder. The unfixed encoder autonomously learns
the image fingerprints that differentiate between the tampered and non-tampered
regions, whereas the fixed encoder intentionally provides the direction
information that assists the learning and detection of the network. This
dual-encoder is followed by a spatial pyramid global-feature extraction module
that expands the global insight of D-Unet for classifying the tampered and
non-tampered regions more accurately. In an experimental comparison study of
D-Unet and state-of-the-art methods, D-Unet outperformed the other methods in
image-level and pixel-level detection, without requiring pre-training or
training on a large number of forgery images. Moreover, it was stably robust to
different attacks.