---
layout: publication
title: 'Photo Stylistic Brush: Robust Style Transfer Via Superpixel-based Bipartite
  Graph'
authors: Jiaying Liu, Wenhan Yang, Xiaoyan Sun, Wenjun Zeng
conference: IEEE Transactions on Multimedia
year: 2017
bibkey: liu2016photo
citations: 34
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.03871'}]
tags: ["Robustness"]
short_authors: Liu et al.
---
With the rapid development of social network and multimedia technology,
customized image and video stylization has been widely used for various
social-media applications. In this paper, we explore the problem of
exemplar-based photo style transfer, which provides a flexible and convenient
way to invoke fantastic visual impression. Rather than investigating some fixed
artistic patterns to represent certain styles as was done in some previous
works, our work emphasizes styles related to a series of visual effects in the
photograph, e.g. color, tone, and contrast. We propose a photo stylistic brush,
an automatic robust style transfer approach based on Superpixel-based BIpartite
Graph (SuperBIG). A two-step bipartite graph algorithm with different
granularity levels is employed to aggregate pixels into superpixels and find
their correspondences. In the first step, with the extracted hierarchical
features, a bipartite graph is constructed to describe the content similarity
for pixel partition to produce superpixels. In the second step, superpixels in
the input/reference image are rematched to form a new superpixel-based
bipartite graph, and superpixel-level correspondences are generated by a
bipartite matching. Finally, the refined correspondence guides SuperBIG to
perform the transformation in a decorrelated color space. Extensive
experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the
proposed method for transferring various styles of exemplar images, even for
some challenging cases, such as night images.