---
layout: publication
title: A New Perspective To Understanding Multi-resolution Hash Encoding For Neural
  Fields
authors: Steven Tin Sui Luo
conference: Arxiv
year: 2025
bibkey: luo2025a
citations: 0
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.03042'}]
tags: [Uncategorized]
short_authors: Steven Tin Sui Luo
---
Instant-NGP has been the state-of-the-art architecture of neural fields in
recent years. Its incredible signal-fitting capabilities are generally
attributed to its multi-resolution hash grid structure and have been used and
improved in numerous following works. However, it is unclear how and why such a
hash grid structure improves the capabilities of a neural network by such great
margins. A lack of principled understanding of the hash grid also implies that
the large set of hyperparameters accompanying Instant-NGP could only be tuned
empirically without much heuristics. To provide an intuitive explanation of the
working principle of the hash grid, we propose a novel perspective, namely
domain manipulation. This perspective provides a ground-up explanation of how
the feature grid learns the target signal and increases the expressivity of the
neural field by artificially creating multiples of pre-existing linear
segments. We conducted numerous experiments on carefully constructed
1-dimensional signals to support our claims empirically and aid our
illustrations. While our analysis mainly focuses on 1-dimensional signals, we
show that the idea is generalizable to higher dimensions.