---
layout: publication
title: 'D-sempre: Learning Deep Semantic-preserving Embeddings For User Interests-social
  Contents Modeling'
authors: Shuang Ma, Chang Wen Chen
conference: Arxiv
year: 2018
bibkey: ma2018d
citations: 1
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.06451'}]
tags: ["Datasets", "Recommender Systems"]
short_authors: Shuang Ma, Chang Wen Chen
---
Exponential growth of social media consumption demands effective user
interests-social contents modeling for more personalized recommendation and
social media summarization. However, due to the heterogeneous nature of social
contents, traditional approaches lack the ability of capturing the hidden
semantic correlations across these multi-modal data, which leads to semantic
gaps between social content understanding and user interests. To effectively
bridge the semantic gaps, we propose a novel deep learning framework for user
interests-social contents modeling. We first mine and parse data, i.e. textual
content, visual content, social context and social relation, from heterogeneous
social media feeds. Then, we design a two-branch network to map the social
contents and users into a same latent space. Particularly, the network is
trained by a large margin objective that combines a cross-instance distance
constraint with a within-instance semantic-preserving constraint in an end-to-
end manner. At last, a Deep Semantic-Preserving Embedding (D-Sempre) is
learned, and the ranking results can be given by calculating distances between
social contents and users. To demonstrate the effectiveness of D-Sempre in user
interests-social contents modeling, we construct a Twitter dataset and conduct
extensive experiments on it. As a result, D-Sempre effectively integrates the
multi-modal data from heterogeneous social media feeds and captures the hidden
semantic correlations between users' interests and social contents.