---
layout: publication
title: "Benchmarking unsupervised near-duplicate image detection"
authors: Morra Lia, Lamberti Fabrizio
conference: Expert Systems with Applications, online first,
year: 2019
bibkey: morra2019benchmarking
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.02821"}
tags: ['Deep Learning', 'Image Retrieval', 'Supervised', 'Unsupervised']
---
Unsupervised near-duplicate detection has many practical applications ranging from social media analysis and web-scale retrieval, to digital image forensics. It entails running a threshold-limited query on a set of descriptors extracted from the images, with the goal of identifying all possible near-duplicates, while limiting the false positives due to visually similar images. Since the rate of false alarms grows with the dataset size, a very high specificity is thus required, up to $1 - 10^{-9}$ for realistic use cases; this important requirement, however, is often overlooked in literature. In recent years, descriptors based on deep convolutional neural networks have matched or surpassed traditional feature extraction methods in content-based image retrieval tasks. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first attempt to establish the performance range of deep learning-based descriptors for unsupervised near-duplicate detection on a range of datasets, encompassing a broad spectrum of near-duplicate definitions. We leverage both established and new benchmarks, such as the Mir-Flick Near-Duplicate (MFND) dataset, in which a known ground truth is provided for all possible pairs over a general, large scale image collection. To compare the specificity of different descriptors, we reduce the problem of unsupervised detection to that of binary classification of near-duplicate vs. not-near-duplicate images. The latter can be conveniently characterized using Receiver Operating Curve (ROC). Our findings in general favor the choice of fine-tuning deep convolutional networks, as opposed to using off-the-shelf features, but differences at high specificity settings depend on the dataset and are often small. The best performance was observed on the MFND benchmark, achieving 96\% sensitivity at a false positive rate of $1.43 \times 10^{-6}$.