---
layout: publication
title: A Refined Analysis Of LSH For Well-dispersed Data Points
authors: Wenlong Mou, Liwei Wang
conference: 2017 Proceedings of the Fourteenth Workshop on Analytic Algorithmics and
  Combinatorics (ANALCO)
year: 2017
bibkey: mou2016a
citations: 1
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04571'}]
tags: ["Efficiency", "Evaluation", "Hashing Methods", "Locality-Sensitive-Hashing"]
short_authors: Wenlong Mou, Liwei Wang
---
Near neighbor problems are fundamental in algorithms for high-dimensional
Euclidean spaces. While classical approaches suffer from the curse of
dimensionality, locality sensitive hashing (LSH) can effectively solve
a-approximate r-near neighbor problem, and has been proven to be optimal in the
worst case. However, for real-world data sets, LSH can naturally benefit from
well-dispersed data and low doubling dimension, leading to significantly
improved performance. In this paper, we address this issue and propose a
refined analyses for running time of approximating near neighbors queries via
LSH. We characterize dispersion of data using N_b, the number of b*r-near pairs
among the data points. Combined with optimal data-oblivious LSH scheme, we get
a new query time bound depending on N_b and doubling dimension. For many
natural scenarios where points are well-dispersed or lying in a
low-doubling-dimension space, our result leads to sharper performance than
existing worst-case analysis. This paper not only present first rigorous proof
on how LSHs make use of the structure of data points, but also provide
important insights into parameter setting in the practice of LSH beyond worst
case. Besides, the techniques in our analysis involve a generalized version of
sphere packing problem, which might be of some independent interest.