---
layout: publication
title: No Language Left Behind Scaling Human-centered Machine Translation
authors: Nllb Team, Marta R. Costa-jussà, James Cross, Onur Çelebi, Maha Elbayad, Kenneth Heafield, Kevin Heffernan, Elahe Kalbassi, Janice Lam, Daniel Licht, Jean Maillard, Anna Sun, Skyler Wang, Guillaume Wenzek, Al Youngblood, Bapi Akula, Loic Barrault, Gabriel Mejia Gonzalez, Prangthip Hansanti, John Hoffman, Semarley Jarrett, Kaushik Ram Sadagopan, Dirk Rowe, Shannon Spruit, Chau Tran, Pierre Andrews, Necip Fazil Ayan, Shruti Bhosale, Sergey Edunov, Angela Fan, Cynthia Gao, Vedanuj Goswami, Francisco Guzmán, Philipp Koehn, Alexandre Mourachko, Christophe Ropers, Safiyyah Saleem, Holger Schwenk, Jeff Wang
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2022
bibkey: nllb2022no
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/http://arxiv.org/abs/2207.04672v3"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq/tree/nllb"}
tags: ['ARXIV', 'Has Code']
---
Driven by the goal of eradicating language barriers on a global scale machine translation has solidified itself as a key focus of artificial intelligence research today. However such efforts have coalesced around a small subset of languages leaving behind the vast majority of mostly low-resource languages. What does it take to break the 200 language barrier while ensuring safe high quality results all while keeping ethical considerations in mind In No Language Left Behind we took on this challenge by first contextualizing the need for low-resource language translation support through exploratory interviews with native speakers. Then we created datasets and models aimed at narrowing the performance gap between low and high-resource languages. More specifically we developed a conditional compute model based on Sparsely Gated Mixture of Experts that is trained on data obtained with novel and effective data mining techniques tailored for low-resource languages. We propose multiple architectural and training improvements to counteract overfitting while training on thousands of tasks. Critically we evaluated the performance of over 40000 different translation directions using a human-translated benchmark Flores-200 and combined human evaluation with a novel toxicity benchmark covering all languages in Flores-200 to assess translation safety. Our model achieves an improvement of 4437; BLEU relative to the previous state-of-the-art laying important groundwork towards realizing a universal translation system. Finally we open source all contributions described in this work accessible at https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq/tree/nllb.
