---
layout: publication
title: Synthetic Images Aid The Recognition Of Human-made Art Forgeries
authors: Johann Ostmeyer, Ludovica Schaerf, Pavel Buividovich, Tessa Charles, Eric
  Postma, Carina Popovici
conference: PLOS ONE
year: 2024
bibkey: ostmeyer2023synthetic
citations: 4
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14998'}]
tags: ["Datasets", "Evaluation"]
short_authors: Ostmeyer et al.
---
Previous research has shown that Artificial Intelligence is capable of
distinguishing between authentic paintings by a given artist and human-made
forgeries with remarkable accuracy, provided sufficient training. However, with
the limited amount of existing known forgeries, augmentation methods for
forgery detection are highly desirable. In this work, we examine the potential
of incorporating synthetic artworks into training datasets to enhance the
performance of forgery detection. Our investigation focuses on paintings by
Vincent van Gogh, for which we release the first dataset specialized for
forgery detection. To reinforce our results, we conduct the same analyses on
the artists Amedeo Modigliani and Raphael. We train a classifier to distinguish
original artworks from forgeries. For this, we use human-made forgeries and
imitations in the style of well-known artists and augment our training sets
with images in a similar style generated by Stable Diffusion and StyleGAN. We
find that the additional synthetic forgeries consistently improve the detection
of human-made forgeries. In addition, we find that, in line with previous
research, the inclusion of synthetic forgeries in the training also enables the
detection of AI-generated forgeries, especially if created using a similar
generator.