---
layout: publication
title: Yambda-5b -- A Large-scale Multi-modal Dataset For Ranking And Retrieval
authors: A. Ploshkin, V. Tytskiy, A. Pismenny, V. Baikalov, E. Taychinov, A. Permiakov,
  D. Burlakov, E. Krofto, N. Savushkin
conference: Proceedings of the Nineteenth ACM Conference on Recommender Systems
year: 2025
bibkey: ploshkin2025yambda
citations: 0
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.22238'}]
tags: ["Datasets", "Evaluation", "Recommender Systems"]
short_authors: Ploshkin et al.
---
We present Yambda-5B, a large-scale open dataset sourced from the Yandex Music streaming platform. Yambda-5B contains 4.79 billion user-item interactions from 1 million users across 9.39 million tracks. The dataset includes two primary types of interactions: implicit feedback (listening events) and explicit feedback (likes, dislikes, unlikes and undislikes). In addition, we provide audio embeddings for most tracks, generated by a convolutional neural network trained on audio spectrograms. A key distinguishing feature of Yambda-5B is the inclusion of the is_organic flag, which separates organic user actions from recommendation-driven events. This distinction is critical for developing and evaluating machine learning algorithms, as Yandex Music relies on recommender systems to personalize track selection for users. To support rigorous benchmarking, we introduce an evaluation protocol based on a Global Temporal Split, allowing recommendation algorithms to be assessed in conditions that closely mirror real-world use. We report benchmark results for standard baselines (ItemKNN, iALS) and advanced models (SANSA, SASRec) using a variety of evaluation metrics. By releasing Yambda-5B to the community, we aim to provide a readily accessible, industrial-scale resource to advance research, foster innovation, and promote reproducible results in recommender systems.