---
layout: publication
title: A Novel Recommendation System To Match College Events And Groups To Students
authors: Kazem Qazanfari, Abdou Youssef, Kai Keane, Joseph Nelson
conference: 'IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering'
year: 2017
bibkey: qazanfari2017novel
citations: 7
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08226'}]
tags: ["Recommender Systems"]
short_authors: Qazanfari et al.
---
With the recent increase in data online, discovering meaningful opportunities
can be time-consuming and complicated for many individuals. To overcome this
data overload challenge, we present a novel text-content-based recommender
system as a valuable tool to predict user interests. To that end, we develop a
specific procedure to create user models and item feature-vectors, where items
are described in free text. The user model is generated by soliciting from a
user a few keywords and expanding those keywords into a list of weighted
near-synonyms. The item feature-vectors are generated from the textual
descriptions of the items, using modified tf-idf values of the users' keywords
and their near-synonyms. Once the users are modeled and the items are
abstracted into feature vectors, the system returns the maximum-similarity
items as recommendations to that user. Our experimental evaluation shows that
our method of creating the user models and item feature-vectors resulted in
higher precision and accuracy in comparison to well-known
feature-vector-generating methods like Glove and Word2Vec. It also shows that
stemming and the use of a modified version of tf-idf increase the accuracy and
precision by 2% and 3%, respectively, compared to non-stemming and the standard
tf-idf definition. Moreover, the evaluation results show that updating the user
model from usage histories improves the precision and accuracy of the system.
This recommender system has been developed as part of the Agnes application,
which runs on iOS and Android platforms and is accessible through the Agnes
website.