---
layout: publication
title: Low-Level Features for Image Retrieval Based on Extraction of Directional Binary Patterns and Its Oriented Gradients Histogram
authors: S. Nagaraja, J. Prabhakar C.
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2015
bibkey: s2015low
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/1503.03606"}
tags: ['ARXIV', 'Image Retrieval']
---
In this paper we present a novel approach for image retrieval based on extraction of low level features using techniques such as Directional Binary Code Haar Wavelet transform and Histogram of Oriented Gradients. The DBC texture descriptor captures the spatial relationship between any pair of neighbourhood pixels in a local region along a given direction while Local Binary Patterns descriptor considers the relationship between a given pixel and its surrounding neighbours. Therefore DBC captures more spatial information than LBP and its variants also it can extract more edge information than LBP. Hence we employ DBC technique in order to extract grey level texture feature from each RGB channels individually and computed texture maps are further combined which represents colour texture features of an image. Then we decomposed the extracted colour texture map and original image using Haar wavelet transform. Finally we encode the shape and local features of wavelet transformed images using Histogram of Oriented Gradients for content based image retrieval. The performance of proposed method is compared with existing methods on two databases such as Wangs corel image and Caltech 256. The evaluation results show that our approach outperforms the existing methods for image retrieval.
