---
layout: publication
title: Grouping The Executables To Detect Malware With High Accuracy
authors: Sanjay K. Sahay, Ashu Sharma
conference: Procedia Computer Science
year: 2016
bibkey: sahay2016grouping
citations: 30
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.06908'}]
tags: []
short_authors: Sanjay K. Sahay, Ashu Sharma
---
The metamorphic malware variants with the same malicious behavior (family),
can obfuscate themselves to look different from each other. This variation in
structure leads to a huge signature database for traditional signature matching
techniques to detect them. In order to effective and efficient detection of
malware in large amounts of executables, we need to partition these files into
groups which can identify their respective families. In addition, the grouping
criteria should be chosen such a way that, it can also be applied to unknown
files encounter on computers for classification. This paper discusses the study
of malware and benign executables in groups to detect unknown malware with high
accuracy. We studied sizes of malware generated by three popular second
generation malware (metamorphic malware) creator kits viz. G2, PS-MPC and
NGVCK, and observed that the size variation in any two generated malware from
same kit is not much. Hence, we grouped the executables on the basis of malware
sizes by using Optimal k-Means Clustering algorithm and used these obtained
groups to select promising features for training (Random forest, J48, LMT, FT
and NBT) classifiers to detect variants of malware or unknown malware. We find
that detection of malware on the basis of their respected file sizes gives
accuracy up to 99.11% from the classifiers.