---
layout: publication
title: Scalable Reverse Image Search Engine For Nasaworldview
authors: Abhigya Sodani, Michael Levy, Anirudh Koul, Meher Anand Kasam, Siddha Ganju
conference: Arxiv
year: 2021
bibkey: sodani2021scalable
citations: 0
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.04479'}]
tags: ["Image Retrieval", "Scalability", "Similarity Search"]
short_authors: Sodani et al.
---
Researchers often spend weeks sifting through decades of unlabeled satellite
imagery(on NASA Worldview) in order to develop datasets on which they can start
conducting research. We developed an interactive, scalable and fast image
similarity search engine (which can take one or more images as the query image)
that automatically sifts through the unlabeled dataset reducing dataset
generation time from weeks to minutes. In this work, we describe key components
of the end to end pipeline. Our similarity search system was created to be able
to identify similar images from a potentially petabyte scale database that are
similar to an input image, and for this we had to break down each query image
into its features, which were generated by a classification layer stripped CNN
trained in a supervised manner. To store and search these features efficiently,
we had to make several scalability improvements. To improve the speed, reduce
the storage, and shrink memory requirements for embedding search, we add a
fully connected layer to our CNN make all images into a 128 length vector
before entering the classification layers. This helped us compress the size of
our image features from 2048 (for ResNet, which was initially tried as our
featurizer) to 128 for our new custom model. Additionally, we utilize existing
approximate nearest neighbor search libraries to significantly speed up
embedding search. Our system currently searches over our entire database of
images at 5 seconds per query on a single virtual machine in the cloud. In the
future, we would like to incorporate a SimCLR based featurizing model which
could be trained without any labelling by a human (since the classification
aspect of the model is irrelevant to this use case).