---
layout: publication
title: Zero-shot Deep Hashing And Neural Network Based Error Correction For Face Template Protection
authors: Talreja Veeru, Valenti Matthew C., Nasrabadi Nasser M.
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2019
bibkey: talreja2019zero
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02706"}
tags: ['ARXIV', 'Cross Modal', 'Graph', 'Supervised']
---
<p>In this paper, we present a novel architecture that integrates a deep
hashing framework with a neural network decoder (NND) for application to
face template protection. It improves upon existing face template
protection techniques to provide better matching performance with
one-shot and multi-shot enrollment. A key novelty of our proposed
architecture is that the framework can also be used with zero-shot
enrollment. This implies that our architecture does not need to be
re-trained even if a new subject is to be enrolled into the system. The
proposed architecture consists of two major components: a deep hashing
(DH) component, which is used for robust mapping of face images to their
corresponding intermediate binary codes, and a NND component, which
corrects errors in the intermediate binary codes that are caused by
differences in the enrollment and probe biometrics due to factors such
as variation in pose, illumination, and other factors. The final binary
code generated by the NND is then cryptographically hashed and stored as
a secure face template in the database. The efficacy of our approach
with zero-shot, one-shot, and multi-shot enrollments is shown for
CMU-PIE, Extended Yale B, WVU multimodal and Multi-PIE face databases.
With zero-shot enrollment, the system achieves approximately 85% genuine
accept rates (GAR) at 0.01% false accept rate (FAR), and with one-shot
and multi-shot enrollments, it achieves approximately 99.95% GAR at
0.01% FAR, while providing a high level of template security.</p>
