---
layout: publication
title: Lamda Language Models For Dialog Applications
authors: Romal Thoppilan, Daniel De Freitas, Jamie Hall, Noam Shazeer, Apoorv Kulshreshtha, Heng-tze Cheng, Alicia Jin, Taylor Bos, Leslie Baker, Yu Du, Yaguang Li, Hongrae Lee, Huaixiu Steven Zheng, Amin Ghafouri, Marcelo Menegali, Yanping Huang, Maxim Krikun, Dmitry Lepikhin, James Qin, Dehao Chen, Yuanzhong Xu, Zhifeng Chen, Adam Roberts, Maarten Bosma, Vincent Zhao, Yanqi Zhou, Chung-ching Chang, Igor Krivokon, Will Rusch, Marc Pickett, Pranesh Srinivasan, Laichee Man, Kathleen Meier-hellstern, Meredith Ringel Morris, Tulsee Doshi, Renelito Delos Santos, Toju Duke, Johnny Soraker, Ben Zevenbergen, Vinodkumar Prabhakaran, Mark Diaz, Ben Hutchinson, Kristen Olson, Alejandra Molina, Erin Hoffman-john, Josh Lee, Lora Aroyo, Ravi Rajakumar, Alena Butryna, Matthew Lamm, Viktoriya Kuzmina, Joe Fenton, Aaron Cohen, Rachel Bernstein, Ray Kurzweil, Blaise Aguera-arcas, Claire Cui, Marian Croak, Ed Chi, Quoc Le
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2022
bibkey: thoppilan2022lamda
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/http://arxiv.org/abs/2201.08239v3"}
tags: ['ARXIV']
---
We present LaMDA Language Models for Dialog Applications. LaMDA is a family of Transformer-based neural language models specialized for dialog which have up to 137B parameters and are pre-trained on 1.56T words of public dialog data and web text. While model scaling alone can improve quality it shows less improvements on safety and factual grounding. We demonstrate that fine-tuning with annotated data and enabling the model to consult external knowledge sources can lead to significant improvements towards the two key challenges of safety and factual grounding. The first challenge safety involves ensuring that the models responses are consistent with a set of human values such as preventing harmful suggestions and unfair bias. We quantify safety using a metric based on an illustrative set of human values and we find that filtering candidate responses using a LaMDA classifier fine-tuned with a small amount of crowdworker-annotated data offers a promising approach to improving model safety. The second challenge factual grounding involves enabling the model to consult external knowledge sources such as an information retrieval system a language translator and a calculator. We quantify factuality using a groundedness metric and we find that our approach enables the model to generate responses grounded in known sources rather than responses that merely sound plausible. Finally we explore the use of LaMDA in the domains of education and content recommendations and analyze their helpfulness and role consistency.
