---
layout: publication
title: Barcodes for Medical Image Retrieval Using Autoencoded Radon Transform
authors: Tizhoosh et al.
conference: 2016 23rd International Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR)
year: 2016
bibkey: tizhoosh2016barcodes
citations: 16
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/1609.05112'}]
tags: [Image Retrieval]
---
Using content-based binary codes to tag digital images has emerged as a
promising retrieval technology. Recently, Radon barcodes (RBCs) have been
introduced as a new binary descriptor for image search. RBCs are generated by
binarization of Radon projections and by assembling them into a vector, namely
the barcode. A simple local thresholding has been suggested for binarization.
In this paper, we put forward the idea of "autoencoded Radon barcodes". Using
images in a training dataset, we autoencode Radon projections to perform
binarization on outputs of hidden layers. We employed the mini-batch stochastic
gradient descent approach for the training. Each hidden layer of the
autoencoder can produce a barcode using a threshold determined based on the
range of the logistic function used. The compressing capability of autoencoders
apparently reduces the redundancies inherent in Radon projections leading to
more accurate retrieval results. The IRMA dataset with 14,410 x-ray images is
used to validate the performance of the proposed method. The experimental
results, containing comparison with RBCs, SURF and BRISK, show that autoencoded
Radon barcode (ARBC) has the capacity to capture important information and to
learn richer representations resulting in lower retrieval errors for image
retrieval measured with the accuracy of the first hit only.