---
layout: publication
title: A^245;net Learning Attribute45;aware Hash Codes For Large45;scale Fine45;grained Image Retrieval
authors: Xiu-shen Wei, Yang Shen, Xuhao Sun, Han-jia Ye, Jian Yang
conference: "Neural Information Processing Systems"
year: 2021
bibkey: wei2021learning
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://papers.nips.cc/paper/2021/hash/2d3acd3e240c61820625fff66a19938f-Abstract.html"}
tags: ['Image Retrieval', 'NEURIPS', 'Unsupervised']
---
Our work focuses on tackling large45;scale fine45;grained image retrieval as ranking the images depicting the concept of interests (i.e. the same sub45;category labels) highest based on the fine45;grained details in the query. It is desirable to alleviate the challenges of both fine45;grained nature of small inter45;class variations with large intra45;class variations and explosive growth of fine45;grained data for such a practical task. In this paper we propose an Attribute45;Aware hashing Network (A^245;Net) for generating attribute45;aware hash codes to not only make the retrieval process efficient but also establish explicit correspondences between hash codes and visual attributes. Specifically based on the captured visual representations by attention we develop an encoder45;decoder structure network of a reconstruction task to unsupervisedly distill high45;level attribute45;specific vectors from the appearance45;specific visual representations without attribute annotations. A^245;Net is also equipped with a feature decorrelation constraint upon these attribute vectors to enhance their representation abilities. Finally the required hash codes are generated by the attribute vectors driven by preserving original similarities. Qualitative experiments on five benchmark fine45;grained datasets show our superiority over competing methods. More importantly quantitative results demonstrate the obtained hash codes can strongly correspond to certain kinds of crucial properties of fine45;grained objects.
