---
layout: publication
title: A Plms Based Protein Retrieval Framework
authors: Yuxuan Wu, Xiao Yi, Yang Tan, Huiqun Yu, Guisheng Fan, Gaowei Zheng
conference: Arxiv
year: 2024
bibkey: wu2024a
citations: 0
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11548'}]
tags: [Tools & Libraries, Efficiency]
short_authors: Wu et al.
---
Protein retrieval, which targets the deconstruction of the relationship
between sequences, structures and functions, empowers the advancing of biology.
Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST), a sequence-similarity-based
algorithm, has proved the efficiency of this field. Despite the existing tools
for protein retrieval, they prioritize sequence similarity and probably
overlook proteins that are dissimilar but share homology or functionality. In
order to tackle this problem, we propose a novel protein retrieval framework
that mitigates the bias towards sequence similarity. Our framework initiatively
harnesses protein language models (PLMs) to embed protein sequences within a
high-dimensional feature space, thereby enhancing the representation capacity
for subsequent analysis. Subsequently, an accelerated indexed vector database
is constructed to facilitate expedited access and retrieval of dense vectors.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that our framework can equally retrieve both
similar and dissimilar proteins. Moreover, this approach enables the
identification of proteins that conventional methods fail to uncover. This
framework will effectively assist in protein mining and empower the development
of biology.