---
layout: publication
title: The Rise And Potential Of Large Language Model Based Agents A Survey
authors: Zhiheng Xi, Wenxiang Chen, Xin Guo, Wei He, Yiwen Ding, Boyang Hong, Ming Zhang, Junzhe Wang, Senjie Jin, Enyu Zhou, Rui Zheng, Xiaoran Fan, Xiao Wang, Limao Xiong, Yuhao Zhou, Weiran Wang, Changhao Jiang, Yicheng Zou, Xiangyang Liu, Zhangyue Yin, Shihan Dou, Rongxiang Weng, Wensen Cheng, Qi Zhang, Wenjuan Qin, Yongyan Zheng, Xipeng Qiu, Xuanjing Huang, Tao Gui
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: xi2023rise
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/http://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07864v3"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://github.com/WooooDyy/LLM-Agent-Paper-List"}
tags: ['ARXIV', 'Has Code', 'Survey Paper']
---
For a long time humanity has pursued artificial intelligence (AI) equivalent to or surpassing the human level with AI agents considered a promising vehicle for this pursuit. AI agents are artificial entities that sense their environment make decisions and take actions. Many efforts have been made to develop intelligent agents but they mainly focus on advancement in algorithms or training strategies to enhance specific capabilities or performance on particular tasks. Actually what the community lacks is a general and powerful model to serve as a starting point for designing AI agents that can adapt to diverse scenarios. Due to the versatile capabilities they demonstrate large language models (LLMs) are regarded as potential sparks for Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) offering hope for building general AI agents. Many researchers have leveraged LLMs as the foundation to build AI agents and have achieved significant progress. In this paper we perform a comprehensive survey on LLM-based agents. We start by tracing the concept of agents from its philosophical origins to its development in AI and explain why LLMs are suitable foundations for agents. Building upon this we present a general framework for LLM-based agents comprising three main components brain perception and action and the framework can be tailored for different applications. Subsequently we explore the extensive applications of LLM-based agents in three aspects single-agent scenarios multi-agent scenarios and human-agent cooperation. Following this we delve into agent societies exploring the behavior and personality of LLM-based agents the social phenomena that emerge from an agent society and the insights they offer for human society. Finally we discuss several key topics and open problems within the field. A repository for the related papers at https://github.com/WooooDyy/LLM-Agent-Paper-List.
