---
layout: publication
title: In-place Updates Of A Graph Index For Streaming Approximate Nearest Neighbor
  Search
authors: Haike Xu, Magdalen Dobson Manohar, Philip A. Bernstein, Badrish Chandramouli,
  Richard Wen, Harsha Vardhan Simhadri
conference: Arxiv
year: 2025
bibkey: xu2025in
citations: 0
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13826'}]
tags: [Recommender Systems, Vector Indexing, Evaluation, Graph-based ANN]
short_authors: Xu et al.
---
Indices for approximate nearest neighbor search (ANNS) are a basic component
for information retrieval and widely used in database, search, recommendation
and RAG systems. In these scenarios, documents or other objects are inserted
into and deleted from the working set at a high rate, requiring a stream of
updates to the vector index. Algorithms based on proximity graph indices are
the most efficient indices for ANNS, winning many benchmark competitions.
However, it is challenging to update such graph index at a high rate, while
supporting stable recall after many updates. Since the graph is singly-linked,
deletions are hard because there is no fast way to find in-neighbors of a
deleted vertex. Therefore, to update the graph, state-of-the-art algorithms
such as FreshDiskANN accumulate deletions in a batch and periodically
consolidate, removing edges to deleted vertices and modifying the graph to
ensure recall stability. In this paper, we present IP-DiskANN
(InPlaceUpdate-DiskANN), the first algorithm to avoid batch consolidation by
efficiently processing each insertion and deletion in-place. Our experiments
using standard benchmarks show that IP-DiskANN has stable recall over various
lengthy update patterns in both high-recall and low-recall regimes. Further,
its query throughput and update speed are better than using the batch
consolidation algorithm and HNSW.