---
layout: publication
title: Large Language Model Can Interpret Latent Space Of Sequential Recommender
authors: Zhengyi Yang, Jiancan Wu, Yanchen Luo, Jizhi Zhang, Yancheng Yuan, An Zhang, Xiang Wang, Xiangnan He
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: yang2023large
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.20487v1"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://github.com/YangZhengyi98/RecInterpreter"}
tags: ['ARXIV', 'Cross Modal', 'Has Code']
---
Sequential recommendation is to predict the next item of interest for a user based on her/his interaction history with previous items. In conventional sequential recommenders a common approach is to model item sequences using discrete IDs learning representations that encode sequential behaviors and reflect user preferences. Inspired by recent success in empowering large language models (LLMs) to understand and reason over diverse modality data (e.g. image audio 3D points) a compelling research question arises Can LLMs understand and work with hidden representations from ID-based sequential recommenders.To answer this we propose a simple framework RecInterpreter which examines the capacity of open-source LLMs to decipher the representation space of sequential recommenders. Specifically with the multimodal pairs (ie representations of interaction sequence and text narrations) RecInterpreter first uses a lightweight adapter to map the representations into the token embedding space of the LLM. Subsequently it constructs a sequence-recovery prompt that encourages the LLM to generate textual descriptions for items within the interaction sequence. Taking a step further we propose a sequence-residual prompt instead which guides the LLM in identifying the residual item by contrasting the representations before and after integrating this residual into the existing sequence. Empirical results showcase that our RecInterpreter enhances the exemplar LLM LLaMA to understand hidden representations from ID-based sequential recommenders especially when guided by our sequence-residual prompts. Furthermore RecInterpreter enables LLaMA to instantiate the oracle items generated by generative recommenders like DreamRec concreting the item a user would ideally like to interact with next. Codes are available at https://github.com/YangZhengyi98/RecInterpreter.
