---
layout: publication
title: Asymmetric Deep Semantic Quantization For Image Retrieval
authors: Yang Zhan, Raymond Osolo Ian, Sun Wuqing, Long Jun
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2019
bibkey: yang2019asymmetric
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.12493"}
tags: ['ARXIV', 'Deep Learning', 'Image Retrieval', 'Quantisation', 'Supervised']
---
Due to its fast retrieval and storage efficiency capabilities, hashing has been widely used in nearest neighbor retrieval tasks. By using deep learning based techniques, hashing can outperform non-learning based hashing technique in many applications. However, we argue that the current deep learning based hashing methods ignore some critical problems (e.g., the learned hash codes are not discriminative due to the hashing methods being unable to discover rich semantic information and the training strategy having difficulty optimizing the discrete binary codes). In this paper, we propose a novel image hashing method, termed as \textbf&amp;\#123;\underline&amp;\#123;A&amp;\#125;&amp;\#125;symmetric \textbf&amp;\#123;\underline&amp;\#123;D&amp;\#125;&amp;\#125;eep \textbf&amp;\#123;\underline&amp;\#123;S&amp;\#125;&amp;\#125;emantic \textbf&amp;\#123;\underline&amp;\#123;Q&amp;\#125;&amp;\#125;uantization (\textbf&amp;\#123;ADSQ&amp;\#125;). \textbf&amp;\#123;ADSQ&amp;\#125; is implemented using three stream frameworks, which consist of one \emph&amp;\#123;LabelNet&amp;\#125; and two \emph&amp;\#123;ImgNets&amp;\#125;. The \emph&amp;\#123;LabelNet&amp;\#125; leverages the power of three fully-connected layers, which are used to capture rich semantic information between image pairs. For the two \emph&amp;\#123;ImgNets&amp;\#125;, they each adopt the same convolutional neural network structure, but with different weights (i.e., asymmetric convolutional neural networks). The two \emph&amp;\#123;ImgNets&amp;\#125; are used to generate discriminative compact hash codes. Specifically, the function of the \emph&amp;\#123;LabelNet&amp;\#125; is to capture rich semantic information that is used to guide the two \emph&amp;\#123;ImgNets&amp;\#125; in minimizing the gap between the real-continuous features and the discrete binary codes. Furthermore, \textbf&amp;\#123;ADSQ&amp;\#125; can utilize the most critical semantic information to guide the feature learning process and consider the consistency of the common semantic space and Hamming space. Experimental results on three benchmarks (i.e., CIFAR-10, NUS-WIDE, and ImageNet) demonstrate that the proposed \textbf&amp;\#123;ADSQ&amp;\#125; can outperforms current state-of-the-art methods.
