---
layout: publication
title: Keyword-based Diverse Image Retrieval By Semantics-aware Contrastive Learning
  And Transformer
authors: Minyi Zhao, Jinpeng Wang, Dongliang Liao, Yiru Wang, Huanzhong Duan, Shuigeng
  Zhou
conference: Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research
  and Development in Information Retrieval
year: 2023
bibkey: zhao2023keyword
citations: 3
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04072'}]
tags: [Datasets, Re-ranking, Image Retrieval, Evaluation, Self-Supervised, SIGIR]
short_authors: Zhao et al.
---
In addition to relevance, diversity is an important yet less studied
performance metric of cross-modal image retrieval systems, which is critical to
user experience. Existing solutions for diversity-aware image retrieval either
explicitly post-process the raw retrieval results from standard retrieval
systems or try to learn multi-vector representations of images to represent
their diverse semantics. However, neither of them is good enough to balance
relevance and diversity. On the one hand, standard retrieval systems are
usually biased to common semantics and seldom exploit diversity-aware
regularization in training, which makes it difficult to promote diversity by
post-processing. On the other hand, multi-vector representation methods are not
guaranteed to learn robust multiple projections. As a result, irrelevant images
and images of rare or unique semantics may be projected inappropriately, which
degrades the relevance and diversity of the results generated by some typical
algorithms like top-k. To cope with these problems, this paper presents a new
method called CoLT that tries to generate much more representative and robust
representations for accurately classifying images. Specifically, CoLT first
extracts semantics-aware image features by enhancing the preliminary
representations of an existing one-to-one cross-modal system with
semantics-aware contrastive learning. Then, a transformer-based token
classifier is developed to subsume all the features into their corresponding
categories. Finally, a post-processing algorithm is designed to retrieve images
from each category to form the final retrieval result. Extensive experiments on
two real-world datasets Div400 and Div150Cred show that CoLT can effectively
boost diversity, and outperforms the existing methods as a whole (with a higher
F1 score).