---
layout: publication
title: Query Attack Via Opposite-direction Feature:towards Robust Image Retrieval
authors: Zhedong Zheng, Liang Zheng, Yi Yang, Fei Wu
conference: Arxiv
year: 2018
bibkey: zheng2018query
citations: 9
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.02681'}]
tags: [Image Retrieval, Robustness]
short_authors: Zheng et al.
---
Most existing works of adversarial samples focus on attacking image
recognition models, while little attention is paid to the image retrieval task.
In this paper, we identify two inherent challenges in applying prevailing image
recognition attack methods to image retrieval. First, image retrieval demands
discriminative visual features, which is significantly different from the
one-hot class prediction in image recognition. Second, due to the disjoint and
potentially unrelated classes between the training and test set in image
retrieval, predicting the query category from predefined training classes is
not accurate and leads to a sub-optimal adversarial gradient. To address these
limitations, we propose a new white-box attack approach, Opposite-Direction
Feature Attack (ODFA), to generate adversarial queries. Opposite-Direction
Feature Attack (ODFA) effectively exploits feature-level adversarial gradients
and takes advantage of feature distance in the representation space. To our
knowledge, we are among the early attempts to design an attack method
specifically for image retrieval. When we deploy an attacked image as the
query, the true matches are prone to receive low ranks. We demonstrate through
extensive experiments that (1) only crafting adversarial queries is sufficient
to fool the state-of-the-art retrieval systems; (2) the proposed attack method,
ODFA, leads to a higher attack success rate than classification attack methods,
validating the necessity of leveraging characteristics of image retrieval; (3)
the adversarial queries generated by our method have good transferability to
other retrieval models without accessing their parameters, i.e.,the black-box
setting.