---
layout: publication
title: Progressive Feedback-enhanced Transformer For Image Forgery Localization
authors: Haochen Zhu, Gang Cao, Xianglin Huang
conference: Arxiv
year: 2023
bibkey: zhu2023progressive
citations: 8
additional_links: [{name: Code, url: 'https://github.com/multimediaFor/ProFact'},
  {name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08910'}]
tags: []
short_authors: Haochen Zhu, Gang Cao, Xianglin Huang
---
Blind detection of the forged regions in digital images is an effective
authentication means to counter the malicious use of local image editing
techniques. Existing encoder-decoder forensic networks overlook the fact that
detecting complex and subtle tampered regions typically requires more feedback
information. In this paper, we propose a Progressive FeedbACk-enhanced
Transformer (ProFact) network to achieve coarse-to-fine image forgery
localization. Specifically, the coarse localization map generated by an initial
branch network is adaptively fed back to the early transformer encoder layers,
which can enhance the representation of positive features while suppressing
interference factors. The cascaded transformer network, combined with a
contextual spatial pyramid module, is designed to refine discriminative
forensic features for improving the forgery localization accuracy and
reliability. Furthermore, we present an effective strategy to automatically
generate large-scale forged image samples close to real-world forensic
scenarios, especially in realistic and coherent processing. Leveraging on such
samples, a progressive and cost-effective two-stage training protocol is
applied to the ProFact network. The extensive experimental results on nine
public forensic datasets show that our proposed localizer greatly outperforms
the state-of-the-art on the generalization ability and robustness of image
forgery localization. Code will be publicly available at
https://github.com/multimediaFor/ProFact.